CISV USA Junior Branch Book of Procedures
SECTION 1:  JUNIOR BRANCH MEMBERS 
A.  DEFINITION
1. A "JBer" is a member of CISV that actively participates in the Junior Branch.

SECTION 2:  JUNIOR BRANCH (JB) USA
A.  DEFINITION
1.  A group of people of which, every JBer is a member
2.  Junior Branch USA is an integral but self-governing component of the structure of CISV USA, Inc. Local chapters must encourage the establishment of local Junior Branches and/or significant participation among their JBers.
B.  GOALS
1. Develop community among its members.
2. Motivate and develop the skills necessary to take an active role in CISV programs and activities as well as in CISV administration on all levels of CISV.
3. Cultivate skills in:
a. Leadership;
b. Organization; 
c.   Decision making;
d. Intercultural cooperation;
e. Any other skills necessary to further the goals of CISV.
4. Organize activities consistent with the educational goals of CISV as approved by the CISV International Governing Board, the CISV USA Board of Directors, or the local CISV board.
5.  Learn about and foster active participation in the democratic procedures of Junior Branch USA.
6.  Participate in the global movement of International Junior Branch.
C.  RESPONSIBILITIES OF JUNIOR BRANCH USA
1. Oversee and encourage the advancement of the Junior Branch USA goals cited in Section 2, Article B.
2. Communicate with and participate in International Junior Branch (IJB), Americas’ Junior Branch (AJB), and local Junior Branches on a regular basis, including disseminating information and promoting participation in international, regional, national and local matters.
3. Facilitate cooperation and collaboration among members to achieve the following:
a. Continuous development of member Junior Branches by improving the quality of Junior Branch projects, Junior Branch volunteers’ work and improving the efficiency and effectiveness of Junior Branch administration.
b. Inter-Junior Branch projects that achieve the goals of Junior Branch in ways that a single Junior Branch could not do alone.
4. Offer possibilities for the acquisition of skills necessary to carry on the organization’s goals and programs in the future.
5. Stimulate and motivate JBers’ involvement in CISV USA and in CISV at the regional and international levels.
6. Liaise between the National Committees and all JBers.
7.  Work for the development of the organization as a whole.

 SECTION 3:  THE NATIONAL JUNIOR REPRESENTATIVES (NJRs)
A.  DEFINITION
1. The National Junior Representatives are two elected National Junior Branch members with individual roles. They are the Senior National Junior Representative and Junior National Representative. 
B.  POSITIONS AND SPECIFIC RESPONSIBILITIES
1.   The Senior National Junior Representative 
a. The final year of a two-year elected position, beginning with a year in service as the Junior National Junior Representative [see Section 3, Article B].
1. Chair either  the National Committee for Leadership Development (NCLD), [see Section 5] or the National Junior Board of Trustees [see Section 8]. As such, the Senior National Junior Representative holds the responsibility of a committee chair as laid out in Section 4 of the CISV USA, Inc., Book of Procedures.
2. Collaborate with the Junior National Junior Representative in all Junior Branch USA matters, including but not limited to trainings, workshops, and visioning.
3.  Serve as the communication branch with the International Junior Branch and Americas’ Junior Branch.
4.  Update consistently the Junior Branch section of the CISV USA, Inc. Book of Procedures.
5. Manage the finances of Junior Branch USA while working with the National Treasurer to compile an annual budget and help manage funds during the year. 
b. In the event of death, resignation, temporary inability to perform, or removal of the Senior National Junior Representative, the Junior National Junior Representative shall fulfill the remainder of the term.
2.   The Junior National Junior Representative 
a. The Junior National Junior Representative shall be elected for a one-year term with the stipulation that after a year, the Junior National Junior Representative will transition to the Senior National Junior Representative [see Section 3, Article B]. The Junior National Junior Representative shall be elected yearly by a vote of the Junior Branch Presidents.
1. Chair either the National Committee for Leadership Development (NCLD) [see Section 5] or the National Junior Board of Trustees [see Section 8].  As such the Junior National Junior Representative holds the responsibility of a committee chair as laid out in Section 4 of the CISV USA, Inc., Book of Procedures.
2. Oversee the National Junior Board Meeting‘s Agenda. 
3. Collaborate with the Senior National Junior Representative in all Junior Branch USA matters, including but not limited to trainings, workshops, and visioning.
e. In the event of death, resignation, temporary inability to perform, or removal of the Junior National Junior Representative, the Senior National Junior Representative, and the National Committee for Leadership Development, shall appoint a new Junior National Junior Representative to serve the remainder of the term.
C.  COLLECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES
1. Represent Junior Branch USA in all CISV USA, Inc. matters.
2. Manage Junior Branch USA through the facilitation of the committees, the local Junior Branch chapters, national events, and any other responsibilities. 
3. Work towards the goals of Junior Branch and make the responsibilities of Junior Branch USA their own.
4. Train the National Committee for Leadership Development.
5. Serve as ex-officio members of the National Mini-Camp Committee (NMCC), [see Section 7].
6. Hold a deep understanding and knowledge of the Junior Branch section of the CISV USA, Inc. Book of Procedures.
7. Represent Junior Branch USA to the international community collectively. This includes attendance at Americas’ Junior Branch Meeting, International Junior Branch Conference, and the Global Conference. For administrative purposes the Senior National Junior Representative officially holds the vote for Junior Branch USA in all regional and international democratic procedures.
D.  CANDIDATES
1. Candidates shall be nominated by any Junior Branch of CISV USA, Inc. via the respective Junior Branch President.
2. The Human Resources Committee shall advise the Junior Branches as to when and how the nominations shall be made.
3. A JBer may not be a candidate for both National Junior Representative and Junior Branch Director.
4. They must fulfill all of the qualifications of the position that they are seeking [See Section 3, Article E].
E.  QUALIFICATIONS:
1. Member of CISV USA, Inc. and Junior Branch USA, who are in good standing, that is no older than the age of 25 when completing their term of office. It is highly advised that the minimum age of a National Junior Representative should be 16 years of age.  
2. Commitment to and understanding of Junior Branch USA and CISV USA’s programs, services and beneficiaries, preferably based on experience.
3.  Natural affinity for cultivating relationships and influencing, persuading, facilitating and building consensus among diverse individuals. 3. Personal qualities of integrity, credibility, responsibility, and a passion for improving the programs and services of Junior Branch USA and CISV USA, as well as the lives of CISV participants.
F.  ELECTION PROCEDURE
1. All Candidates must complete the official Questionnaire form, which formally announces their candidacy as well as providing information about the candidate, both personal and in relation to CISV. This completed form must be submitted to the current National Junior Representatives by the specified deadline.
2. The candidates will also participate in an open Question & Answer session facilitated by the Junior National Junior Representative.
3. In the election of the National Junior Representative, the vote shall be held in a closed meeting of the Junior Branch Presidents, supervised by the Senior National Junior Representative and the National Junior Branch Advisor. The Senior NJR is expected to act as a unbiased moderator and to ensure that the session complies with the Book of Procedures and runs effectively.  The Senior NJR is expected to factually answer questions pertaining to the clarification of provided materials but not to incorporate any outside information or personal opinion in doing so.  Opinion-based questions pertaining to individual candidates shall not be answered.  The Senior NJR must only read directly from applications or the transcript  from the question and answer session.  If the Senior NJR reads one candidates response to any question, they must read the responses of all candidates to the same question.  The current National Junior Branch Advisor will act as a support to the Senior NJR and will ensure that the Senior NJR is performing their required roles without bias.  The Junior NJR will also be present for the purpose of continuity and communication within JB USA leadership.  However, the Junior NJR must remove themself from the group, preferably in a position where the JB Presidents cannot see their face, and be silent unless directly called upon by the NJBaD, Senior NJR, or JB Presidents to answer a clarifying question the answer to which could not possibly present any bias.  During the sessions, the Junior NJR will be the minute keeper.
a. Each Junior Branch chapter of CISV USA, Inc. carries one vote that is represented by their respective Junior Branch President. In the event that a Junior Branch President is a National Junior Representative candidate, a proxy will be required to vote in the place of the Junior Branch President in question. A proxy form must be submitted before the commencement of the election to the current Senior National Junior Representative. 
1. A proxy shall be defined as another voting member that shall represent the chapter that appoints them, in addition to their own responsibilities.  The proxy must follow the voting decision that the absent member has given for that chapter’s vote.   
b. In the event of a tie in the National Junior Representative election, the deciding vote will be cast by the CISV USA Board of Directors, which begins service at CISV USA’s Annual Meeting. 
c. In the instance where there are more than two candidates running, the election will be done in two rounds. In the first round, each chapter will cast one vote, and votes will be counted. In the second round, the two candidates who received the highest number of votes in the first round will be voted on in the same format. The candidate with the highest number of votes in the end of this round will be the new National Junior Representative.  
4. The candidate who receives a 50% + 1 majority of the Junior Branch Presidents shall be declared the new Junior National Junior Representative.   
5. If the election occurs at the National Junior Branch Meeting, then after the new NJR has been elected, the NJRs decide which of them will chair the NJBoT and which will chair the NCLD.  If a decision has not been reached by the time that the NJBoT elections are held and the NCLD slate approved, the Senior NJR will default to chairing the National Committee for Leadership Development and the Junior NJR will default to chairing the National Junior Board of Trustees.  Once the decision has been made of defaulted to, the roles of the NJRs remain unchanged until the next NJBM.  NJRs may not switch roles in the middle of the year
a. If the new NJR is elected at NJBM but after the NCLD or NJBoT, a decision needs to be reached before the end of NJBM, or the Senior NJR defaults to chairing the NCLD and the Junior NJR defaults to chairing the NJBoT
b. If a special election is held and for whatever reason the NJR is not elected during a National Junior Branch Meeting, or if there is less than 24 hours between when the NJR is elected and when NJBM ends, the NJRs need to make a decision within 24 hours or the Senior NJR defaults to chairing the NCLD and the Junior NJR defaults to chairing the NJBoT
c. If there are special circumstances not covered above, for instance if an NJR is elected and cannot be contacted, the NJBoT will create and approve a procedure in order to reach a decision between the NJRs.  Or they may choose by a majority vote to have the roles default to the Senior NJR chairing the NCLD and the Junior NJR chairing the NJBoT.

G.  EXPENSES
1. The expenses of Junior Branch USA and National Junior Representatives originate from dues collected from local Junior Branches, fundraising, and the CISV USA, Inc. budget and are subject to annual approval of the CISV USA Board of Directors.
H.  REMOVAL PROCESS
1. If a National Junior Representative should be removed, it is encouraged that a discussion is held in an attempt to find a solution other than removal.
2. If removal is deemed necessary, a consultation should occur with the CISV USA Board of Directors about proceeding with removal.
3. If the CISV USA Board of Directors approves the removal, the National Junior Representative in question is notified that he/she is being removed. 4. In the event of removal, the appointment procedures, which are stated under each respective National Junior Representative position, must be implemented.

SECTION 4: JUNIOR BRANCH DIRECTOR 
A. DEFINITION
1. The Junior Branch Director is elected by the Junior Branch Presidents for a two-year term as a member of the CISV USA Board of Directors. In this capacity, the Junior Branch Director has the rights and responsibilities of a CISV USA Board Member as laid out in Section 4 of the CISV USA Book of Procedures.
B. SPECIFIC RESPONSIBILITIES
1. Sit on the CISV USA Board of Directors and carry a single vote in representation of the youth.
2. Represent the interests of JB USA to the Board. 
3. Serve as a liaison between the youth and the adults of CISV USA, communicating with the National Junior Representatives consistently throughout the year.
4. Be present at all Board meetings (at least four times per year, conducted in person or electronically) and CISV USA’s Annual Meeting. 
5. Fulfill all responsibilities expected of all members of the CISV USA Board of Directors.
C. QUALIFICATIONS
1. A commitment to and understanding of CISV USA’s programs, services and beneficiaries, preferably based on experience.
2.  Diplomatic skills and a natural affinity for cultivating relationships and influencing, persuading, facilitating and building consensus among diverse individuals. 3. Personal qualities of integrity, credibility, responsibility, and a passion for improving the programs and services of CISV USA as well as the lives of CISV participants.
4. Experience with significant executive leadership accomplishments in organizations and businesses with which they have been involved
D. ELECTION PROCEDURE
1. All Candidates must complete and submit the three required documents announcing their candidacy: the CISV USA Board of Directors Nomination Form, the CISV USA Board of Directors Candidate Profile, and the CISV USA Background Check Form. 
2. CISV USA will conduct background checks on all CISV USA Board of Directors Candidates. 
3. In the election of the Junior Branch Director, the vote shall be held in a closed meeting of the Junior Branch Presidents, supervised by the Senior National Junior Representative and the National Junior Branch Advisor.  The Senior NJR is expected to act as a unbiased moderator and to ensure that the session complies with the Book of Procedures and runs effectively.  The Senior NJR is expected to factually answer questions pertaining to the clarification of provided materials but not to incorporate any outside information or personal opinion in doing so.  Opinion-based questions pertaining to individual candidates shall not be answered.  The Senior NJR must only read directly from applications or the transcript  from the question and answer session.  If the Senior NJR reads one candidates response to any question, they must read the responses of all candidates to the same question.  The current National Junior Branch Advisor will act as a support to the Senior NJR and will ensure that the Senior NJR is performing their required roles without bias.  The Junior NJR will also be present for the purpose of continuity and communication within JB USA leadership.  However, the Junior NJR must remove themself from the group, preferably in a position where the JB Presidents cannot see their face, and be silent unless directly called upon by the NJBaD, Senior NJR, or JB Presidents to answer a clarifying question the answer to which could not possibly present any bias.  During the sessions, the Junior NJR will be the minute keeper.
	a. Each Junior Branch chapter of CISV USA, Inc. carries one vote that is represented by their respective Junior Branch President. In the event that a Junior Branch President is a Junior Branch Director candidate, a proxy will be required to vote in the place of the Junior Branch President in question. A proxy form must be submitted before the commencement of the election to the current Junior National Junior Representative. 
1. A proxy shall be defined as another voting member that shall represent the chapter that appoints them, in addition to their own responsibilities.  The proxy must follow the voting decision that the absent member has given for that chapter’s vote.   
b. In the event of a tie in the Junior Branch Director election, the deciding vote shall be cast by the National Junior Representatives as a whole. 
c. In the instance where there are more than two candidates running, the election shall be done in two rounds. In the first round, each chapter will cast one vote, and votes will be counted. In the second round, the two candidates who received the highest number of votes in the first round will be voted on in the same format. The candidate with the highest number of votes in the end of this round will be the new Junior Branch Director.
	4. The winning candidate shall be announced as the new Junior Branch Director.   
E. EXPENSES 	
1. The expenses of the Junior Branch Director are a part of the CISV USA Board of Director’s line-item budget.
F. REMOVAL PROCESS
1. In the event of death, resignation, temporary inability to perform, or removal of the Junior Branch Director, the CISV USA Board of Directors shall appoint a new Junior Branch Director, with the advice and consent of the National Junior Representatives and the National Committee for Leadership Development.

SECTION 5: THE NATIONAL COMMITTEE FOR LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (NCLD)
A. DEFINITION
1. The National Committee for Leadership Development is comprised of a group of Junior Branch leaders with varying backgrounds and origins. The committee shall have a maximum size of 5 members, and it should accurately reflect the makeup and needs of Junior Branch USA. Each member shall serve a one-year term, but can serve additional terms if re-elected. 
B.  SPECIFIC RESPONSIBILITIES
1. Review, evaluate, and assist in the effectiveness of the Local Junior Branches in the USA.
2. Express concerns and share the ideas and opinions of the JBers of CISV USA with the National Junior Representatives.
3. Coordinate and develop Junior Branch communication and activities in accordance with the goals and purposes of CISV.
4. Plan and facilitate all activities for the JBers attending the National Junior Board Meeting.
5. Plan and facilitate all trainings for the Junior Branch Presidents attending the President-Elect Trainings at the Chapter Development Weekends.
6. Liaise with the regions of Junior Branch USA and local Junior Branch Presidents.
7. Assist in the development and improvement of Junior Branch USA in accordance with the goals of Junior Branch and the vision of the National Junior Representatives, the National Junior Board of Trustees, and the Youth Committees.
C.  QUALIFICATIONS
1. Mature, involved Junior Branch members in good standing. 
2. Necessary communication skills and time to fulfill this position. 
3. Experience working with the local chapters of JB USA.
4. Facilitation skills and personal qualities of responsibility, cooperation, and drive.  
D.  SLATING & ELECTION PROCEDURE FOR THE NATIONAL COMMITTEE FOR LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT
1. Prior to the National Junior Board Meeting, the National Junior Representatives shall distribute an application for the National Committee for Leadership Development. This application will be due by 7pm on the Friday of the National Junior Board Meeting. Applicants need not be present at the National Junior Board Meeting to apply for the Committee.
	•	A candidate who applies to the National Committee for Leadership Development may not apply for a position on the National Junior Board of Trustees in the same year.
2. The Junior and Senior National Junior Representatives shall interview all potential candidates on the second day of the National Junior Board Meeting, either in person or by other means.
3. After reviewing the applications and interviews, the Senior and Junior National Junior Representative shall select a slate of candidates for the National Committee for Leadership Development.
4. The slate of candidates shall then be presented for approval to the Junior Branch Presidents of Junior Branch USA in a closed meeting, chaired by the Senior National Junior Representative and National JB Advisor.  The Senior NJR is expected to act as a unbiased moderator and to ensure that the session complies with the Book of Procedures and runs effectively.  The Senior NJR is expected to factually answer questions pertaining to the clarification of provided materials but not to incorporate any outside information or personal opinion in doing so. The current National Junior Branch Advisor will act as a support to the Senior NJR and will ensure that the Senior NJR is performing their required roles without bias.  The Junior NJR will also be present for the purpose of continuity and communication within JB USA leadership.  However, the Junior NJR must remove themself from the group, preferably in a position where the JB Presidents cannot see their face, and be silent unless directly called upon by the NJBaD, Senior NJR, or JB Presidents to answer a clarifying question the answer to which could not possibly present any bias.  During the sessions, the Junior NJR will be the minute keeper.
a. Each chapter of CISV USA, Inc. carries one vote, represented by their respective Junior Branch President. With the case that a Junior Branch President is a candidate, a proxy will be required to vote in the place of the Junior Branch President in question. A proxy form must be submitted before the commencement of the election to the current Junior National Junior Representative. 
1. A proxy shall be defined as another voting member that shall represent the chapter that appoints them, in addition to their own responsibilities.  The proxy must follow the voting decision that the absent member has given for that chapter’s vote.   
b. Approval of the slate requires a 50% + 1 majority of the Junior Branch Presidents.
1. In the event where the 50% + 1 approval is not reached, the Junior Branch Presidents will be given the opportunity to discuss the slate. The National Junior Representatives will then take the opinions of the Presidents into consideration and present a new slate to the Junior Branch Presidents for approval.
8. After approval, the new National Committee for Leadership Development is announced.
E.  COMMITTEE CHAIR
1. The Chair of the National Committee for Leadership Development shall be the Senior National Junior Representative.
2. As Chair of the committee, the Senior National Junior Representative must ensure that all forms, budgetary items, and administrative duties are carried out in a timely manner.
F.  EXPENSES
1. The expenses of the National Committee for Leadership Development are a part of the Junior Branch USA line-item budget subject to annual approval by the CISV USA Board of Directors.
G. REMOVAL PROCESS
1. In the event of death, resignation, temporary inability to perform, or removal of a National Committee for Leadership Development member, the National Junior Representatives shall appoint a new National Committee for Leadership Development member, with the advice and consent of the Junior Branch Presidents.
 
SECTION 6:  THE NATIONAL MINI-CAMP COMMITTEE CHAIRS (NMCC CHAIRS)
THIS SECTION IS LOCATED UNDER PART IV, IV-28 (SECTION 1), and PERSONNEL & COMMITTEES, IN THE BOOK OF PROCEDURES. 

SECTION 7:  THE NATIONAL MINI-CAMP COMMITTEE (NMCC) 
THIS SECTION IS LOCATED UNDER PART IV, IV-28 (SECTION 2), PERSONNEL & COMMITTEES, IN THE BOOK OF PROCEDURES. 

SECTION 8:  THE NATIONAL JUNIOR BOARD OF TRUSTEES (NJBoT)
A.  DEFINITION
1. The National Junior Board of Trustees shall be comprised of 9 members: the National Junior Branch Advisor, 5 Regional Representatives, and 3 Members at Large. They are the governing body of Junior Branch USA and as such are responsible for setting procedure and policy as well as conducting democratic proceedings.
B.  NATIONAL JUNIOR BRANCH ADVISOR
1. The National Junior Branch Advisor is a voting member of the National Junior Board of Trustees who is over the age of 25. 
2. It is highly recommended that this person be a former member of the Junior Branch. 
3. The National Junior Branch Advisor offers an adult perspective on the National Junior Board of Trustees. 
4. This position shall serve a two-year term, but can serve additional terms if re-elected. 
C.  REGIONAL REPRESENTATIVES
1. There shall be 5 Representatives representing each of the 5 regions of Junior Branch USA: the Northeast, the South, the East Mid West, the West Mid West, and the West. 
2. Each Regional Representative is a voting member of the National Junior Board of Trustees. 
3. It is highly recommended that this person be an active member of the Junior Branch. 
4. The Regional Representative shall act in the interests of both their individual region but also of Junior Branch USA as a National Organization. 
5. In addition, the Regional Representatives are required to send any proposed motions that are to be discussed in plenary a week before the plenary occurs to their respective regions. 
6. This position shall serve a one-year term, but can serve additional terms if re-elected.
D.  MEMBERS AT LARGE
1. There shall be 3 Members at Large. 
2. Each Member at Large is a voting member of the National Junior Board of Trustees. 
3. It is highly recommended that this person be an active member of the Junior Branch. 
4. The Member at Large shall act in the interests of Junior Branch USA as a National Organization. 
5. This position shall serve a one-year term, but can serve additional terms if re-elected.
E.  RESPONSIBILITIES
1. Attend a group meeting and the National Junior Board Meeting [see Section 11, Article C]. If unable to attend either of these meetings, the member in question is responsible for making arrangements so that they are still able to participate and have an active presence.
2. Consider the interests of local Junior Branches of CISV USA, Inc., while representing the interests of Junior Branch USA as a National Organization in all democratic proceedings.
3. Communicate consistently with the National Junior Representatives the developments and issues being discussed by the National Junior Board of Trustees.
4. Maintain responsibility for the inner-workings and decisions of Junior Branch USA, including but not limited to: the approval of the annual Junior Branch USA budget, approval of Junior Branch USA projects that require funding, and approval of any other policy, procedure or activity.
5. Understand and realize the issues affecting local chapters and Junior Branch USA.
6. Share information and experiences in the interest of representing the local Junior Branches.
7. Determine points of discussion and/or motions to present to the CISV USA Board of Directors.
8. Collaborate with committees in a manner that benefits the development and work of Junior Branch and the organization as a whole.
F.  VESTED POWERS
1. Vote independently on proposals or motions, which any member of Junior Branch USA can propose. 
2. Submit motions to the CISV USA Board of Directors.
3. Alter its structure and activities independent of the CISV USA Board of Directors except in cases where the policies or actions affect the National Association beyond the Junior Branch or require the amendment of the CISV USA, Inc. Book of Procedures.
4. Approve the plans of the National Junior Representatives and other administrative documents created by the National Junior Representatives.
G.  ELECTION PROCEDURES
1. National Junior Branch Advisor
a. Prior to the National Junior Board Meeting, the National Junior Representatives will distribute an application for the National Junior Branch Advisor. This application must be submitted by the specified deadline. Applicants need not be present at the National Junior Board Meeting to apply for the position.
b. After reviewing the applications the National Junior Representatives will recommend a candidate for the National Junior Branch Advisor.
c. The recommended candidate will be presented to the CISV USA Board of Directors for approval. 
1. In the event that the CISV USA Board of Directors rejects the recommended candidate, the Board will be given the opportunity to discuss the candidate. The National Junior Representatives will then take the opinions of the Board into consideration and present another candidate for approval.
d. The CISV USA Board of Directors approved candidate will then be presented for approval to the Junior Branch Presidents of Junior Branch USA in a closed meeting, chaired by the Senior National Junior Representative and a the current National JB Advisor.  The Senior NJR is expected to act as a unbiased moderator and to ensure that the session complies with the Book of Procedures and runs effectively.  The Senior NJR is expected to factually answer questions pertaining to the clarification of provided materials but not to incorporate any outside information or personal opinion in doing so.  Opinion-based questions pertaining to individual candidates shall not be answered.  The Senior NJR must only read directly from applications.  If the Senior NJR reads one candidates response to any question, they must read the responses of all candidates to the same question.  The current National Junior Branch Advisor will act as a support to the Senior NJR and will ensure that the Senior NJR is performing their required roles without bias.  The Junior NJR will also be present for the purpose of continuity and communication within JB USA leadership.  However, the Junior NJR must remove themself from the group, preferably in a position where the JB Presidents cannot see their face, and be silent unless directly called upon by the NJBaD, Senior NJR, or JB Presidents to answer a clarifying question the answer to which could not possibly present any bias.  During the sessions, the Junior NJR will be the minute keeper.
	•	In the event that the current National Junior Branch Advisor is running for another term, the NJBAd must choose a proxy, matching their qualifications, to sit in for them.  In this case, the proxy must be familiar with the NJBAd’s role in plenary and be able to fulfill that position.
e. Each chapter of CISV USA, Inc. carries one vote, represented by their respective Junior Branch President. With the case that the current National Junior Branch Advisor is a candidate, a proxy will be required to vote in the place of the National Junior Branch Advisor. A proxy form must be submitted before the commencement of the election to the current Junior National Junior Representative. 
1. A proxy shall be defined as another voting member that shall represent the chapter that appoints them, in addition to their own responsibilities.  The proxy must follow the voting decision that the absent member has given for that chapter’s vote.   
f. Approval of the candidate requires a 50% + 1 majority of the Junior Branch Presidents.
1. In cases where the 50% + 1 approval is not reached; the Junior Branch Presidents will be given the opportunity to discuss the slate. The National Junior Representatives will then take the opinions of the Presidents into consideration and present a new candidate to the Junior Branch Presidents for approval.
g. After approval, the new National Junior Branch Advisor is announced.
2. Regional Representatives
a. Candidates for Regional Representatives of the National Junior Board of Trustees shall be nominated by any Junior Branch of CISV USA, Inc. via the respective Junior Branch President. 
b. Prior to the National Junior Board Meeting, the National Junior Representatives shall distribute an application for the Regional Representatives of the National Junior Board of Trustees. This application must be submitted by the specified deadline. Applicants need not be present at the National Junior Board Meeting to apply for the position.
c. All candidates shall undergo a Question & Answer session with the region they are running for during the National Junior Board Meeting. The entire Question & Answer session and voting process shall be facilitated by the National Committee for Leadership Development liaison for the region in question; thus, each available regional representative position shall be chosen at the same time in separate regional breakout rooms.
d. In the election of the Regional Representatives, the vote is held in a closed meeting of the Junior Branch Presidents of that specific region, supervised by the National Committee for Leadership Development liaison for the region in question.
1. Each Junior Branch chapter of CISV USA, Inc. that is a member of the region in question carries one vote that is represented by their respective Junior Branch President.  
 2. If a Junior Branch President is absent from voting, he or she may request a proxy vote.  A proxy form must be submitted before the commencement of the election to the current Junior National Junior Representative. 
a. A proxy shall be defined as another voting member that shall represent the chapter that appoints them, in addition to their own responsibilities.  The proxy must follow the voting decision that the absent member has given for that chapter’s vote.   
3. After all votes are counted, the candidate with the highest total of votes shall be elected to the position as long as that candidate has received a 50%+1 majority of the votes given. In cases where the 50%+1 approval has not been reached, the candidate with the lowest amount of votes will be dropped, and voting will occur again.
4. In the event of a tie in which one or more members receive the most amount of votes, the National Junior Representatives as a whole shall cast the deciding vote between the tied applicants on who receives the position.
	a. In the case of a tie between the last two available candidates, the National Junior Representatives shall cast the deciding vote and determine the winner of the election. 
b. In the case of a tie among the candidates with the lowest amount of votes, the National Junior Representatives shall cast the deciding vote for which candidate is not dropped and proceeds to the next round of voting.
5. In the event that there is no applicant for the open position at the start of the Question & Answer session, open nominations may come from the floor from any Junior Branch President in the respective region. Should they accept the nomination, the new nominees must also undergo the Question & Answer session.  
e. After voting has concluded, both of the National Junior Representatives and a parliamentarian of CISV USA shall count the votes and announce the new Regional Representatives of the National Junior Board of Trustees.
f. In the case of a loss, a candidate who was running for, but did not receive the Regional Representatives position may transfer their application to the Member at Large pool and run for that position.
3. Members at Large 
a. Prior to the National Junior Board Meeting, the National Junior Representatives shall distribute an application for the Members at Large of the National Junior Board of Trustees. This application must be submitted by the specified deadline. Applicants need not be present at the National Junior Board Meeting to apply for the position.
b. All candidates shall undergo a Question & Answer session during the National Junior Board Meeting facilitated by the Junior National Junior Representative.
c. In the election of the Members at Large, the vote is held in a closed meeting of the Junior Branch Presidents, supervised by the Junior National Junior Representative and a parliamentarian of CISV USA. 
1. Each voting member is given a piece of paper where they must write the names of three separate candidates they are choosing to vote for.  
2. If a Junior Branch President is absent from voting, he or she may request a proxy vote.  A proxy form must be submitted before the commencement of the election to the current Junior National Junior Representative. 
a. A proxy shall be defined as another voting member that shall represent the chapter that appoints them, in addition to their own responsibilities.  The proxy must follow the voting decision that the absent member has given for that chapter’s vote.   
3. Votes may not be repeated for the same candidate, but instead each must be for a separate candidate. If a paper contains any repeated names, the entire vote is deemed as void, and a re-vote must occur. If a Junior Branch President is running for the position, they must deem a proxy from their chapter to vote in the process instead of them.
4. The elected members shall be the number of applicants equal to the open spots that have the most and subsequent most votes.
5. After all votes are counted, the three candidates with the highest total of votes shall be elected to the position.
6. In the event of a tie for the lowest applicable number of votes to be elected, the National Junior Representatives as a whole shall cast the deciding vote between the tied applicants on who receives the position.
7. In the event that there are not enough applicants for the open positions at the start of the Question & Answer session, open nominations may come from the floor from any Junior Branch President. Should they accept the nomination, the new nominees must also undergo the Question & Answer session.
	a. Regional Representative candidates who have transferred their applications to the Member at Large pool count towards this applicant number, and nominations from the floor may only come if the number of direct and transferred applications is less than the open number of positions.
d. After voting has concluded, both of the National Junior Representatives and a parliamentarian of CISV USA shall count the votes and announce the new Members at Large of the National Junior Board of Trustees.
4. A candidate who applies to the National Junior Board of Trustees may not apply for a position on the National Committee for Leadership Development or the National Minicamp Committee.	
H.  EXPENSES
1. The expenses of the National Junior Board of Trustees are a part of the Junior Branch USA line-item budget subject to annual approval by the CISV USA Board of Directors. 
I. REMOVAL PROCESS
1. In the event of death, resignation, temporary inability to perform, or removal of a member of the National Junior Board of Trustees, the National Junior Representatives, with the advice and consent of the National Committee for Leadership Development and the Junior Branch Presidents, shall appoint a new member of the National Junior Board of Trustees to serve the remainder of the term.

SECTION 9: JUNIOR BRANCH PRESIDENTS
A. DEFINITION
1. Junior Branch Presidents are responsible for the leadership of chapter-level Junior Branch boards and events, and the election of select Junior Branch USA national leadership.
a. All Junior Branches shall run on the President-Elect system, in which an individual holds a one-year term as President Elect and then immediately fills the position of Junior Branch President the following year. Thus, those wishing to serve as Junior Branch President must plan to serve as President Elect the year prior to their Junior Branch President term.
1. In the case that a Junior Branch is unable to fill a two-year system of President-Elect and Junior Branch President,  the chapter must have the upcoming Junior Branch President in place by January 1st of the school year prior to the term of the Junior Branch President, to ensure that the future Junior Branch President is able to attend a chapter development workshop. 
2. If an upcoming Junior Branch President is not established by January 1st of the year prior to their term, the chapter forfeits their vote in national elections for that calendar year. 
3. It is suggested Junior Branch chapters have a President-Elect in place by September 1st of each year. If not possible, the chapter must have an upcoming Junior Branch President in place by the following January 1st. 	
B. RESPONSIBILITIES
1. Attend the National Junior Board Meeting [see Section 11, Article C] and any other mandatory meetings. If a Junior Branch President is unable to attend these meetings, that member is responsible for making arrangements so that the chapter may still be able to participate and have an active presence.
2. Maintain responsibility for fair representation of the local Junior Branches of CISV USA, Inc. in all democratic proceedings.
3. Collaborate with the National Junior Board of Trustees Members to provide a communication link between the leadership of Junior Branch USA (National Junior Representatives, National Committee for Leadership Development) and local chapters (Junior Branch Advisors, Chapter Boards, and other local JBers).
4. Understand and realize the issues affecting local chapters and Junior Branch USA. 
5. Share information and experiences in the interest of promoting collaboration between Junior Branches and regions.
6. Ensure that their individual Junior Branch chapter dues are submitted to the National Treasurer each year.
7. Elect the National Junior Representatives [see Section 3].
8. Elect the Junior Branch Director [see Section 4].
9. Approve the slate of candidates for the National Committee for Leadership Development [see Section 5].
10. Elect the National Junior Board of Trustees members [see Section 8].
11. Approve the recommended candidate for the National Junior Branch Advisor [see Section 8, Article B].
12. Elect the JBer for Life.
13. Attend a chapter development workshop in the year prior to the Junior Branch President term. 
C. ELECTION PROCEDURES
1. Junior Branch Presidents shall be elected individually, following individual chapter election procedures. There is no set limit as to the number of Junior Branch Presidents in JB USA - co-presidencies are dependent upon the bylaws of individual chapters.

SECTION 10:  OVERALL JUNIOR BRANCH USA STRUCTURE
A.  SEE GRAPHIC.






SECTION 11:  NATIONAL PROGRAMS
A.  DEFINITION
1. A National Program is considered to be any program that is planned, facilitated, evaluated, and financially supported by Junior Branch USA, the National Junior Representatives, and/or any of the other bodies representing Junior Branch USA.
B.  GOALS
1. The goals of Junior Branch USA National Programs are synonymous with the goals of Junior Branch USA [see Section 2, Article B]. 
C.  THE NATIONAL JUNIOR BOARD MEETING
1. Definition: The National Junior Board Meeting is an annual gathering that focuses on educational content in its activities as well as leadership training. The National Junior Board Meeting occurs during CISV USA’s Annual Meeting.
2. Target Group: Each chapter is required to send the acting Junior Branch President as well as up to three other JBers that are active and involved in Local Junior Branch. The chapter is also responsible for sending a chaperone that meets the requirements of the CISV USA, Inc. Chaperone Guidelines.
3. Management: This meeting is overseen by the Junior National Junior Representative and planned and facilitated by the National Committee for Leadership Development with the assistance of the National Youth Meeting Committee and the National Junior Board of Trustees.
D.  THE FORUM
1. Definition: The Forum is a Junior Branch activity that combines educational activities with Junior Branch leadership training. Each Forum will have a distinct educational theme.
2. Target Group: The Forum is for active members aged 14-17 who are active in their local Junior Branch. The total number of participants should be between 25 and 40 participants. There must be chaperones present at the activity that meets the requirements of the CISV USA, Inc. Chaperone Guidelines.
3. Management: The Senior National Junior Representative is responsible for selecting a staff of approximately four involved, mature, and responsible JBers to plan and facilitate each Forum. The Senior National Junior Representative is also responsible for coordinating logistics, selecting and approving a site, and working with the host chapter on logistical matters. The Forum will be held every other year with the off year holding the Summit (e.g. 2011 Forum, 2012 Summit, 2013 Forum, etc.).
E.  THE SUMMIT
1. Definition: The Summit is a theme-based Junior Branch weekend-long activity used to explore a theme using a discussion-based method modeled loosely after Seminar Camp. A large emphasis of the program is designing and completing a collaborative, creative project.
2. Target Group: The Summit is for those JBers who have graduated from high school and those who may be over the age of 25.
3. Management: This activity shall be planned, facilitated and evaluated by interested, motivated JBers with the help of the National Junior Representatives. The Summit will be held every other year with the off year holding the Forum (e.g. 2012 Summit, 2013 Forum, 2014 Summit etc.).
F. JUNIOR BRANCH PRESIDENT-ELECT TRAININGS AT CHAPTER DEVELOPMENT WEEKENDS
1. Definition: President-Elect Training is the primary training for the new Junior Branch Presidents. 
2. Target Group: Recently elected or current Junior Branch Presidents that will continue to fulfill that role for the coming year.
3.   Management: This meeting is planned, run and evaluated by the National Committee for Leadership Development under the direction of the National Junior Representatives and the Chapter Development committee.
G.  NATIONAL MINI CAMP 
1. Definition: A weekend-long mini camp focused on educational activities, group bonding, and community building within Junior Branch USA.
2. Target Group: All JBers regardless of age or position in Junior Branch. Group size is limited only by site. There must be chaperones present at the activity that meet the requirements of the CISV USA, Inc. Chaperone Guidelines.
3. Management:  This meeting is planned, facilitated, and evaluated by the National Mini Camp Committee under the direction of the National Mini Camp Committee chairs with help from the National Junior Representatives.

H.  JUNIOR BRANCH LEADERSHIP TRAINING	
1. Definition: A developing program created by Junior Branch USA, designed to provide high-quality leadership and facilitation training on a local or regional level for JBers who may have not had previous training.
2. Target Group: The target group for this activity is local JBers who are interested in developing their Junior Branch.
3. Management: The programming of each individual Junior Branch Training should be designed, created and run by experienced trainers with input from the trainees, National Junior Representatives, National Committee for Leadership Development, and National Junior Board of Trustees. The program should be free for the chapter with staff paying their own way. It is encouraged that the staff live nearby and pay their own way to the training.

SECTION 12: VOTING PROCEDURE
A. VESTING CLAUSE
All governing powers herein granted shall be vested in the National Junior Board of Trustees, which shall consist of five regional representatives, three members-at-large, and the National JB Advisor, as authorized in section 8.

B. AMENDMENT CLAUSE
This section, and only this section, may not be altered or removed without the consent of 5 members of the NJBoT, and documented consent of the majority (50%+1) of JB USA chapters represented by their JB presidents.  

C. CONFLICT OF INTEREST CLAUSE
Any motion which alters the vested powers, term limits, or election procedure of the NJBoT can only be approved with the documented consent of the majority (50% +1) of JB USA chapters represented by their JB presidents.

D. MOTION MANAGER
From the nine members of NJBoT, a motion manager shall be selected by its members to fulfill the duties mandated herein with care and integrity.
1. The Motion Manager shall make him or herself known to JB USA and shall serve as a resource to all JBers who would like to develop a motion.  She or he should work with the NJRs to ensure that motions are clear, specific, and include any necessary changes to the JB Book of Procedures.
2. The Motion Manager shall monitor njbot@us.cisv.org and confirm the reception of any motion submitted.
3. The Motion Manager shall keep a record of submitted motions yet to be voted on
4. The Motion Manager shall maintain the JB USA Book of Motions, in which shall be collected all motions submitted to the NJBoT, a record of preliminary votes of JB chapters as well as the votes of NJBoT members for each motion, and the minutes taken during every plenary session during which a motion is to be voted upon.  The Book of Motions should be published to JB USA.
 5. The motion manager shall not include any of her or his own ideas in a motion that is not submitted on his or her behalf.  She or he must work with JBers to develop their own ideas and not implement his or her own in drafts of motions.
6. The Motion Manager shall, with the help of the NJR,  ensure that the NJBoT acts in pursuance with the procedures described in this section and shall inform the Junior NJR, as the chair of the committee, of any deviation from this section.

The Motion Manager shall serve a one-year term and if elected for a consecutive term on the NJBoT, must be selected again by its members.   
In the event of resignation or death, a new motion manager shall be selected from the NJBoT by the remaining members of the NJBoT.

E. MOTION CREATION AND SUBMISSION
A motion may be written by anyone, but must be submitted on behalf of, and with the knowledgable consent of, a current JBer in good standing.  Every motion is to be submitted to the motion manager via njbot@us.cisv.org.
If designated as final, the motion must be sent out to all JB presidents.
If designated as a draft, the motion manager may work with the author to create a final version.  However, the draft must be received by the entire NJBoT, and the motion manager’s contribution made known to all members.
Upon any submission, the author of the motion must be notified of its reception by the motion manager.  

F. VOTING
A member of the NJBoT, or NJR, must “move to discuss” a specific motion.  This “move to discuss” must be seconded by a member of the NJBoT.  After the “move to discuss” is seconded, the motion must be voted on within three weeks unless preliminary votes are not received from 5 or more JB chapters.

In order to ensure that the NJBoT is making an informed decision, regional representatives should obtain a preliminary vote from each JB chapter, represented by its JB presidents, in their regions.  If no preliminary vote is received from five or more chapters, voting may not take place and must be delayed until no more than 4 chapters have not sent their preliminary votes.

If JB leadership of a chapter changes after a preliminary vote has been received, but before the vote, the preliminary vote is no longer valid.

Before voting is to take place, a plenary must be held to which a quorum of six members must attend.  The Junior NJR shall choose the time and method of communication for this plenary, and should take care to ensure that as many NJBoT members will be able to attend as possible.  This plenary will be facilitated by the Junior NJR with, if needed, the help of the Senior NJR.  During the plenary, all the preliminary votes must be totaled and communicated to the entire committee.  To end the plenary, a member may “move to vote.”  This must be seconded, and then approved by the majority (50% + 1) of the committee present at the plenary.  In the event of a tie, the deciding vote shall be cast by the Junior NJR with, if needed, the consultation of the Senior NJR.  If the motion to vote is approved, the plenary ends and members of the NJBoT have 24 hours to vote on the motion.  Members not present at the plenary may vote, but should read the minutes and the motion.  The minutes of the plenary should be shared with all members of the committee and JB USA.  Members of NJBoT may choose to speak off the record during the plenary, the comments made after such a request should not be included in the minutes.

NJBoT members are not allowed to vote by proxy.  Each of their votes must be cast by them personally.
Votes must be cast and recorded in a way that allows each NJBoT member only one vote, is accessible, and eliminates the ability to change or misreport the votes of each member.  If an NJBoT member fails to vote within 24 hours, his or her vote will be recorded as an abstention. Committee members should consider the preliminary votes, the discussion during plenary, and decide according to what they believe would be the best choice for JB USA as a whole.  In the event of a tie, the deciding vote shall be cast by the Junior NJR with, if needed, the consultation of the Senior NJR, and must be cast within an additional 24 hours.

The votes will be counted and verified by the Junior NJR and at least two members of the NJBoT.  If there is reasonable suspicion the voting record is not accurate by a member of the NJBoT or an NJR, and is seconded by an NJBoT member, NJBoT members must, if they have not already, reveal how they voted.  If the voting record is not consistent, the record should be changed to indicate how members intended to vote.  Reasonable suspicion cannot be voiced more than 24 hours after the vote is originally recorded.

In order to prevent a conflict of interest, members of NJBoT should not be asked to reveal their vote to individuals outside the committee.  If there is a considerable possibility of a conflict of interest, members may vote (which may be blind) to have a blind vote and must agree by a majority of members present (50%+1) with, in the event of a tie, the deciding vote cast by the Junior NJR.  The individual votes of the members should not be published.  However, the number of yea votes, nay votes, and abstentions may and should be published.

G. AMENDMENTS TO MOTIONS
In the event of an amendment or any change to the motion, the vote must be delayed two weeks or until the regional representatives have obtained all preliminary votes on the new, amended motion.  After all regional representatives have obtained the necessary preliminary votes, or two weeks have passed, the preliminary votes are shared and the NJBoT can move to vote or move to discuss.   The motion to vote requires a second, and a majority (50%+1) of members’ consent with, in the event of a tie, the Junior NJR casting the deciding vote.  The motion to discuss simply requires a second.  

If the motion to vote passes, the NJBoT has 24 hours to vote, and follows regular voting procedure as described in part F.

If the motion to discuss passes, the Junior NJR should pick the soonest available time to host a plenary.  The NJBoT then follows regular procedure as described in part F.

H. TABLING MOTIONS
Motions may be tabled for a specific interval of time with the consent of five members of NJBoT.  A motion may not be tabled for after JB USA leadership changes, i.e., motion should be voted upon before leadership changes at NBM.

 I. REQUIREMENTS FOR A DECISION
A decision on a motion cannot be counted as valid if any of the following is true:
1. 5 or more chapters have not sent preliminary votes.
2. National JB leadership changes after the plenary but before the vote.
If a decision is found to be invalid, the NJBoT may move to discuss or move to vote again.


SECTION 13: THE NATIONAL SERVICE PROJECT
	•	DEFINITION
	•	The National Service Project asks all JB chapters in CISV USA to complete a one-day service project very near in time to each other, ideally in the same month. These projects will all address or be inspired by an annual theme (example: literacy) that pertains to one of CISV’s four main educational content areas: Sustainability, Human Rights, Diversity, and Conflict Resolution. Elected positions to carry out the project are National Service Project Leaders (NSPLs), the National Service Project Committee (NSPC) members, and the National Service Project Committee Chair (NSPCC). 
	•	NATIONAL SERVICE PROJECT LEADER  (NSPL)
	•	Specific Responsibilites
	•	Each NSPL will be repsonsible for mobilizing their chapter, organizing the service project, and making sure their projects meet the goals that the National Service Project has set forth.
	•	Qualifications
	•	Eagerness to engage local community
	•	Desire to apply CISV’s educational content in their community
	•	Time availability and communication skills needed to organize a day of service for their chapter
	•	Election Procedure After The First Year:
	•	NSPLs will be selected or elected by their local chapters by NJBM. 
	•	NATIONAL SERVICE PROJECT COMMITTEE (NSPC)
	•	Specific Responsibilities: 
	•	Each NSPC member will be assigned to a region of CISV USA. Each NSPC member will be accountable for making sure each chapter in their region has a successful and smooth project. They will accomplish this by training the NSPL team and by being the first line of support for each NSPL in their region.
	•	Qualifications:
	•	Experience in running service projects
	•	Desire to use CISV’s educational content to affect tangible change
	•	Leadership skills needed to guide and support NSPLs
	•	Teamwork skills needed to cooperate with the other NSPC members
	•	Understanding of the mission of the NSP overall, and the goals of the year’s NSP
	•	Time availability and communication skills needed to support NSPL’s and work as a team member with the other NSPC members
	•	Understanding of CISV’s educational values
	•	Election Procedure For the First Year:
	•	NSPC candidates will apply to the NJRs before the end of NJBM. The NSPC will then be chosen by the new NSPCC (who has final say) and the former NSPCC (who may offer advice) by the end of NJBM.
	•	NATIONAL SERVICE PROJECT COMMITTEE CHAIR  (NSPCC)
	•	Specific Responsibilities:
	•	The NSPCC is responsible for keeping the NSP on schedule, guiding and leading the NSPC, and making sure the whole NSP meets its goals.
	•	Qualifications:
	•	Experience in running service projects
	•	Broad understanding of CISV’s educational values
	•	Experience working on a CISV committee
	•	Time availability and communication skills needed to run the NSPC and the NSP
	•	Leadership skills needed to guide and support NSPC
	•	Election Procedure After the First Year:
	•	NSPCC candidates will apply to the NJRs and then be chosen by the NJRs and the past NSPCC by the first night of NJBM.
	•	In the event of a NSPCC position vacancy, new NSPCC candidates will apply to and be chosen by the NJRs. It is strongly encouraged that the NJRs include the previous year’s NSPCC in the discussions leading to their decision on the new NSPCC.
	•	ELECTION PROCEDURE FOR THESE POSITIONS AFTER THE FIRST YEAR 
	•	NSPCC: Willing members of the current NJBoT will apply for NSPCC by a date decided by the NJRs. The election will occur by Thursday night of NJBM by the NJBoT and the NJRs.
	•	NSPC: Applications must be submitted to the NJRs by Friday night of NJBM. The committee will be appointed by the NSPCC and announced with the other committees. 
	•	NSPLs: Chapters will need to have a NSPL by December 1. They may hold elections, for which the NSPC can provide application templates, or find a leader however they deem fair. If necessary, guidance will be given to the chapters by the NSPC. 
	•	REMOVAL PROCESS 
	•	For National Service Project Committee Chair:
	•	If the NSPCC should be removed, it is encouraged that a discussion is held in an attempt to find a solution other than removal.
	•	If removal is deemed necessary, a consultation should occur with the National Junior Representatives and CISV Board of Directors about proceeding with removal.
	•	If the National Junior Representatives approve the removal, the NSPCC in question is notified that they are being removed.
	•	In the event of removal, the appointment procedures, which are stated under the NSPCC position, must be implemented.
	•	For National Service Project Committee Member:
	•	If a NSPC member should be removed, it is encouraged that a discussion is held in an attempt to find a solution other than removal.
	•	If removal is deemed necessary, a consultation should occur with the National Junior Representatives and NSPCC about proceeding with removal.
	•	If the National Junior Representatives and NSPCC approve the removal, the NSPC member in question is notified that they are being removed.
	•	In the event of removal, the National Junior Representatives, with the advice and consent of the National Committee for Leadership Development and the Junior Branch Presidents, shall appoint a new member of the National Service Project Committee Member. 
	•	WORKING GROUP
	•	Summary
	•	It is the opinion of a majority of NJBoT members that at the time of voting JB USA did not have the national capacity to support the National Service Project Committee. 
	•	In the interest of the sustainability organization as a whole, it was decided to assign the above responsibilities to a more informal working group, led by an official national chair.
	•	The NSP will be the responsibility of this working group until the National Junior Representatives at a time in the future decide that JB USA has the capacity for the NSPC.  At this time, the NSPC will be created and will assume full responsibilities described above and will be subject to the procedures described above.
	•	National Service Project Working Group Chair
	•	Responsibilities
	•	Guide the work of the working group and ensure the success the National Service Project
	•	Collaborate with the NJRs to select the members of the working group.
	•	Serve as the go-to person for all things National Service Project and oversee all important decisions
	•	Ensure that important info is passed on to the next National Service Project Chair
	•	Schedule meetings for the working group
	•	Election Procedure for the first year
	•	The National Service Project Working Group Chair will be selected by the NJRs and NJBoT.  A candidate is elected if s/he recieves a simple majority of votes with each NJR and NJBoT member holding one vote.   
	•	NJBoT members running for National Service Project Working Group Chair may not vote and may not have a proxy.  
	•	If there is a tie, or if a consensus cannot be reached, the Junior NJR will cast the tie-breaking vote.  
	•	Election Procedure for following years
	•	The chair will be elected by the previous chair of the working group with consultation of the NJRs
	•	National Service Project Working Group
	•	Responsibilities
	•	Ensure the success of the National Service Project
	•	Educate and train National Service Project Leaders
	•	Communicate with National Service Project Leaders
	•	Assist National Service Project Leaders with carrying out local service projects
	•	Update CISV USA about the National Service Project after it has happened
	•	Use social media and other platforms to inform CISV USA about the National Service Project before it occurs
	•	Act as a resource when needed with the recruitment and selection of local leaders
	•	Selection Process for the first year
	•	A short online form will be created including the responsibilities of the working group.  Those interested in the working group must complete the form before a deadline decided by the second night of NJBM at a time decided by the NJRs.  Those interested in the group will be selected at the discretion of the NJRs and National Service Project Working Group Chair.  The size of the working group should be 7-10 people.  
	•	Selection For the Following Years
	•	A short online form will be created including the responsibilities of the working group.  Those interested in the working group must complete the form before a deadline decided by the second night of NJBM at a time decided by the NJRs.  Those interested in the group will be selected at the discretion of the NJRs and National Service Project Working Group Chair and the previous National Service Project Working Group chair.  The size of the working group should be 7-10 people.  
	•	Tranisition to National Committee
	•	When the NJRs feel that JB USA has enough capacity to support the National Service Project Committee, Section 13 Parts A-F will take effect and the National Service Project Committee as well as the National Service Project Committee Chair will be selected at the upcoming National Junior Branch Meeting.

SECTION 14: JBER FOR LIFE 
	•	DEFINITION
	•	The ‘JBer for Life Award’ is an award that is given to a CISV member 25 years or older who has been active in participating in and assisting with the Junior Branch. They continue to give unlimited support to the Junior Branch and offer wisdom and enthusiasm. 
	•	NOMINATION AND ELECTION PROCESS
	•	 A JB Chapter President in the United States must submit a profile sheet including the name, qualifications, contributions, and experiences of the candidate within CISV. This information must be submitted at least a week before the annual NJBM. After submission, the current NJRs will compile all nominations and provide a printed version for all JB presidents at the beginning of the plenary session. The presidents then have the opportunity to better understand each candidate prior to voting. Presidents are expected to keep award nominees and final recipient confidential so when the award is announced, it is still a surprise to the winner. During the plenary session in which the award recipient is voted on, the president who nominated each candidate has the opportunity to speak on the candidate’s behalf for two minutes maximum. After all nominees have been spoken for, the voting will take place. Voting is done by ballot, and each president receives one vote. The winner is decided by simple majority. This means that whatever candidate has the most amount of votes wins. If two candidates are tied in votes, there will be a second vote between the two candidates who tied for first. If the tie persists, the NJRs will receive one vote to break the tie. 
